# telegram information

Telegram is a chat application that has more than 400.000 users. Telegram allows one, in contrast to other (mobile)chat services to extremely easily create a bot for this service. Since not all the steps in an actual analysis will take a few seconds (or even minutes) to complete, but operations on data can sometimes take up to hours, it is very insightful to get a message from the server that did the operations, just like one gets messages from one's friends and family. A telegram bot seems to do this. This repo makes use of this technology. Since a bot is strictly personal, the use of a bot is optional when using the scripts in this repository. To create a telegram bot on has to follow steps starting with talking to the [botfather](https://t.me/botfather). Every bot has a bot token and every conversation one has on telegram has a chat id. Several tutorials online will explain this throughly, but in short: one should start a conversation and send a message with the created bot and download/open up this page https://api.telegram.org/TOKEN/getUpdates where TOKEN is of course to bot token of the bot one has created. This page will show the chat_id code somewhere. By reloading this page the chat_id will disappear, and one should send a new message. The scripts could be configured for one's chat_id and bot token by executing `source ./script/telegram_message.R` in the root directory of this repo, and pasting/filling in the codes. To make sure these personal codes aren't uploaded to a public server on can use 2 git hook script, that are inside the doc directory of this repo. By simply copying them to the .git/hooks directory it will modify the scripts before committing so the codes are replaced, and the telegram actions are commented out. A small disadvantage of this is that your repo alway seemed to have 'not committed changes'.
